So, welcome to Using
Trigger Volume! It's going to unlock a load of power in Unreal! In this video, we're going to talk about
trigger volume being a very versatile tool, especially if you get a 3D volume
that detects thing entering or leaving it. We're going to use one as
a pressure plate in our game, and we're going to show you how we can
go about specifying which objects in the game can
actually open a door. The method we're going to use is IsOverlapping
Actor() on ATriggerVolume. And we'll briefly be talking about
poling, which is what we're going to be doing. Every frame we're going to be asking, has it overlapped, has it overlapped, has it overlapped?
Like a kid that's asking whether or not the car has arrived at their destination. "Are we there yet daddy?",
versus using events, which we're not going to do here. But later, we'll get much more grown up
and we'll use an Event Driven System, which is where the adult turns around and says, hey kids we're there,
and the kids never bug them all the way, but we're not quite at events yet. We're just going to poll
for now, and let's get in and see how it works! By the way, by the end,
what's going to happen is, as I go over this pressure plate, at least one of these doors will open.
So welcome back guys, I'm pretty excited to get this hooked up! Now, of course, by
changing this OpenDoor code, we're going to be changing the behavior
of both doors, which is pretty cool! This is the benefit of a component, we are recycling
behavior. Whatever we do to one open door, why it's just one thing isn't it?
It's one component, one piece of code, one .h file, one .cpp.
So that's pretty cool right, and then both of these doors get this new behavior!
So, what I want to happen next, and this is just a simple design decision,
is I want our designer or the designer part of you to be able
to choose what this pressure plate or
what this door opening code can actually
be triggered by, and, in our case, it's going to be
the pawn. So, if we play the game and then we Eject
ourselves from possession of this pawn, that's now sitting here,
you can see it's called a Default Pawn, it's in the World Outliner.
And it's this Default Pawn hitting the pressure plate, that we're
going to have actually open the door, and normally, in a game like this we'd be using
a slightly richer object called a character. The problem is that, that comes with
even more boiler plate code, so we'll just leave that for later
on. OK, so how are we going to do this then?
What I want to be able to do is, I want to be able to click on a door,
go to details, go to Open Door, and then, have an option here that says: "OK,
what could open this door or these doors? OK, it doesn't give us the flexibility
to choose different things for different doors, but you could choose different trigger volumes
for different doors, and they could even be on top of each other, those trigger door volumes. So, we could
have two trigger volumes on top of each other. One effectively linked to this door, one linked to this
door, and then, they could behave differently, so it's pretty flexible. Alright, so
how are we going to do it? We need to, firstly,
say what Actor is going to do the triggering, so let's go across to our code.
How do we get to the code? Well, one way is click on the Open Door, right-click, Open Open
Door.h. It'll take us to the header file, and from there, we can very quickly get over to the
.cpp, but it's actually the header file we need.
Now, it's going to be in the private section again, it's going to be a UPROPERTY again, it's
going to be editable anywhere, and instead of being ATriggerVolume
*, it's just going to be an actor. *Remember that
pawn inherits from Actor. Remember the inheritance, I'm just going to put a comment in here for you.
We have, in fact, I'll just put the comment right here.
"// Remember pawn inherits from actor".
OK, how do I know it's a pawn, by the way? As I said,
I've brushed over it, but let me just go back real quick! When we play the game and Eject ourselves
and then look back at who we are and click on ourselves, in the game,
you can see that we are called DefaultPawn2. Look in the World Outliner,
it's one of these yellow temporary items, that only exist at play time.
Alright, and remember from the Class Hierarchy, Window,
Developer Tools, Class Viewer, that we have Actor,
and then, if you drill inside Actor you'll get Pawn. OK, so that's what I mean that Pawn is
inherited from Actor. So, we're using an Actor because it's
more general. You could say a Pawn, or just type type the word...
Ooh, I've got my insert off! Type the word pawn,
spelled correctly, of course. And you find
APawn and then you're being even more specific. So, we can do that if you wish.
APawn or AActor, I'm going to use AActor. It doesn't really matter here
which we use. AActor
ActorThatOpens, because we want chairs
to be open. That's a hint as to what's going to come later, but we might
want a chair to be able to open this door. That's why I'm going to the Actor level, rather than down to the
Pawn level, and we'll understand a lot more about what Actors and Pawns are later. And also, just
by immersion just by coming into our scene and looking at things and saying, well you know
what's a chair? Well, it's a Static Mesh Actor. And you know,
what are we? We're a Pawn which is more specialized. So, you'll start getting used to this.
So, we're going to say AActor*, because everything is a pointer.
ActorThatOpen, OK so when I now build this
code, what we're going to get
probably as you expect over in here... I'm going to be bold and go over to Unreal,
being aware of the bottom-right of the screen, where if it works we'll get "Hot Reload Completed!".
Cool! Finally, I'll click on a door, go to the details,
OpenDoor component. You see, Actor that opens, and of course, I
can't choose it right now, because I'm not in the scene. Now, we'll deal with
how we find the pawn that isn't here until we're running later, but
I'll show you a cool way of attaching it for testing purposes in a minute. Firstly,
we need to just do a little bit more code, right. What we need to do is go to the OpenDoor.cpp.
All of this stuff up here, in begin play that opens the door where we find the
owning actor, create a rotator, and set the door rotation. Let's refactor this out! You can highlight
it, Quick Actions, Extract Function.
OK, and let's just call it OpenDoor.
And that's a lot easier to read now, isn't it? On BeginPlay() we were opening the door. Well, we're
no longer going to open the door and begin play. I've got to move
that OK, so now, of course, the door just wouldn't open. And what we're going to do
is we're going to poll every frame. We're going to "// Poll the
Trigger Volume" every frame.
Now, pseudocode programming here. We're going to say "// If the
ActorThatOpens" I think we called it, didn't
we. Yeah, "// If the
ActorThatOpens is in the
volume" then we "// Open the door"... In fact,
I've already got the code for opening the door, but it's not in my paste buffer, so
we'll just go Open
Door(); Cool! OK, so that's what
we want to happen! Now, at the moment, it's going to open the door every frame.
So, how do we poll the Trigger Volume and what do I mean by polling it? Well, I'm literally,
every single frame, going to just say
if... Now, if what? We have to work out what we're asking. Well,
we're going to look at the PressurePlate. if
type (PressurePlate)...
There it is! Now, what is (PressurePlate)? Hover over it. It's a Trigger Volume
pointer, so we need to use the arrow operator. Now, how would you
know what you can pull off it? Well, difficult!
You're going to scroll through, you're going to do a Google search. I mean, obviously, I'm going to tel you right, but I'm trying to tell you how
you'd work it out for yourself. You're going to scroll through, you're going to whatever...
Is it when something enters the volume? Oh, what was that about overlap?
Ah, OnActorEndOverlap! So, maybe it's when the Actor
overlaps the volume. So, if we did a search for overlap...
Oh hang on! Sorry, I went off. Do a search for overlap.
IsOverlappingActor returns a boolean. That's pretty appropriate!
And what does it ask for? A pointer to an Actor! Ah, so
if PressurePlate is Overlapping
with an Actor, which actor would the (ActorThat
Opens)) yeah!
Then, and that's just going to
move these comments around. Then, we open the door.
Pretty cool hey! I'm just fudging my brackets here, so
just bear with me while I just put these back in place. Perfect!
if (PressurePlate->IsOverlapping with an Actor,
the (ActorThatOpens) that's we've passed in, in the Inspector, then we
Open the Door. Let's try and build it!
See I've talked you very much through the process here, because I want you to understand my thinking process, as to
how we end up making these sort of decisions and finding this code. It's going to be a lot more
useful for you, in the long run. OK, this is how we are going to
actually attach our Actor. Right now, it's not going to work! The Pawn is not going to trigger any door
opening! Watch this though! Play the game, Eject yourself from the
Pawn, yeah ,go to the door which you
can do, go to the OpenDoor component. Now, you can temporarily go and
find DefaultPawn4, at runtime, as the Actor that opens!
Repossess the pawn and move forward.
Now, we're saying that the door has to be moveable, if you'd like it to move. You
see that warning that's come up? That's a very easy fix, we click on the door. We just
go down into the Transform in the Details Tab and make it moveable.
Play again! To reinforce what we did, we Ejected ourselves from the Pawn.
Click on the
door, go to the OpenDoor component, go and select the
Pawn, repossess the Pawn, move forward,
and the doors open, or at least one of the doors open. Why is
that? Let's look at the other door's OpenDoor component, because this instance
wasn't linked to that Actor. Now, let's not worry about that for now. We could link
them both up by Playing, Ejecting, and doing what I did twice, but we don't need to. We're obviously
going to do this programmatically. But the real benefit here
is that we have learned to actually find out about OverlappingActors
and to write some really simple code and to organize it here, in a way that makes it
really easy for the designer to put all of this together. So, congratulations on getting this far
and I will see you soon!